SOURCE_URL: https://families.williams.edu/articles/your-students-first-williams-year/
TITLE: Your Student's First Williams Year (Dean of First-Year Students letter)
TYPE: official-advice
RETRIEVED: 2026-06-09
---
# Your Student's First Williams Year

Dear Families and Parents of New Students,

Welcome to Williams! Thank you for sharing your remarkable young people with us. I write today both to welcome you and to share some information that will be helpful for you to have in mind and talk over with your students before they arrive on campus.

First, our community. Your student's classmates will arrive at Williams from all over the country and all over the world – from more than 80 countries and hundreds of different communities, urban and rural, with many different first languages, cultures and experiences. Spending time with classmates from such a wide array of backgrounds is an important part of the magic that happens here: students learn so much from one another as they get to know each other in their dorms, in classrooms, in community service, in the dining halls, in athletics and clubs, in the arts, and in places of worship. Encourage your student to listen to others with an open mind, give them the benefit of the doubt, ask questions, and be patient with others and with themselves, allowing time to develop new relationships rather than rushing to find "instant" new friends.

Second, our courses. Your students will make their initial selections for their first semester classes this summer. Williams students don't receive department-specific advisors until they declare their majors at the end of their sophomore year. So, if your student is keen on chemistry and gets matched with a history professor, tell them not to worry in the least. First-year advisors work with students to envision the entire arc of their academic career. Many students find their life's work and passion in a subject they'd never heard of, through a class they didn't think they'd love or even like. Nearly all Williams students are challenged by the academic transition from high school to college. Fewer classes, longer homework assignments, and peers who are all really smart combine to create a learning environment that can take some getting used to—particularly for students who are used to being at the top of the academic heap. Encourage them to prioritize their own learning journey rather than compare themselves to others, and to take advantage of academic resources, as most students do at some point in their Williams careers.

Third, the social environment. Your students have probably had more "rules" as teenagers than they will in college, where they will control their own social lives for the first time. Talk with them about alcohol and drugs, and about how to be safe and respectful in their intimate lives. Let them know that you expect they'll explore new things, but that you hope they'll make decisions that are safe and that they'll step in to get help if they see someone else who is in serious difficulty.

Fourth, the journey. Part of making the most of college is knowing when and where to ask for help and guidance. During orientation, we will point out many resources on campus for help if difficulties arise, and emphasize that our strongest students are the ones who take advantage of that help rather than avoiding it. Please encourage your student to let us know if they are dealing with health issues of any kind that might require support while they're at Williams. Our Health Center is fully equipped and prepared to ensure that such challenges won't reduce the quality of your student's experience here. Likewise, if your student benefitted from disability support services in high school, that support continues at Williams.

Please encourage your student to reach out at any point to me, Dean of First Year Students. My role is to be a resource and support your student's journey at Williams.

With best regards,
Christina Walsh, PhD, Associate Dean for First Year Students
