SOURCE_URL: https://www.hercampus.com/school/williams/advice-to-my-younger-self/
TITLE: Advice to My Younger Self (Her Campus at Williams — student article)
TYPE: student-voice
RETRIEVED: 2026-06-09
---
# Advice to My Younger Self

Considering the fact that I have written sporadically for HerCampus these past four years, it felt necessary to write something as these years draw to a close. And of all the things I could write about, it felt most natural to write about all of the wisdom and advice I wish I could give to my younger self.

1. Belonging is essential. Being at Williams was, for the first time in my life, a place where I actually felt that people treated me differently because of my background. In my freshman year, I had professors who only focused on the white students in class or lab. Belonging has been, by far, the thing I have struggled with the most at Williams. But here are the best pieces of advice that I can give: first, friendships are built off of respect. Friends who fail to respect you aren't friends. Two, some people are just going to treat you differently because of who you are or where you come from, and it's important to remember that this is a reflection on them and not on you. Third, justified pettiness is okay. If someone does not believe in you because of your background, it is totally okay to succeed and rub it in their face four years later.

2. Don't procrastinate. You're going to do it anyway, but you would save yourself a lot of stress if you didn't.

3. You need to learn how to forgive yourself. You're going to make mistakes. It's not about the mistakes. It's about learning to forgive yourself and learn from them in the aftermath.

4. Family is important. Call her and annoy her, and tell her that you love her. You would not be graduating college if it were not for that woman.

5. Say thank you. There are so many people in life that have gotten you to where you are. You should be grateful and learn how to express it.

6. Wear goggles in lab. In my sophomore year, I was working in a lab and I got lysis buffer in my eye. I didn't tell anyone because I didn't want to look stupid, but later that night I woke up with bright red eyes and an eyelid I could not open. I went to the emergency room at about four in the morning, praying that I would not lose my eyesight. There is no good reason that you should not be wearing goggles in the lab. Ever. Period.

7. You should travel. There is a big, beautiful world out there with fascinating people and interesting languages and amazing cultures. Go explore as much as you can. You won't regret it.

8. There's more to life than just work. Go to history museums, try new foods, and go to live music. There's so much more to life than just cramming for tests, getting A's, or doing research. Your life outside of work has to be fulfilling too for you to ever be truly happy.

9. Balance prestige and happiness. You can go to the most prestigious schools with all the opportunities in the world, but if you don't enjoy being there, or if you don't feel like you fit in, you won't take advantage of any of those opportunities anyway. If you want to truly reach your full potential, you need to find a place where opportunities abound and where you feel happy and comfortable enough to take advantage of them.
